---
layout: page
title: Steven's Personal Manual
date: 2020-12-14
author: Steven Buehler
---
# Concerning the care and feeding of a nerd. In particular, _me_.

> How much happier you would be, how much more of you there would be, if the hammer of a higher God could smash your small cosmos, scattering the stars like spangles, and leave you in the open, free like other men to look up as well as down! &mdash;G. K. Chesteron, _Orthodoxy_ (1908).

> I know the sky is not the limit, because there are footprints on the moon, and I made some of them. &mdash;Buzz Aldrin.


Notes
====

This document gets updated rather frequently. It was last updated on December 14, 2020.

I say this often&mdash;my life is an open book. If there's something not in here you're dying to know or are curious about just ask. The answer may end up in this "manual."

TL;DR Version
=============

- 48, 6'1", 235-ish trying to get rid of this gut.

- Previously married, divorced after 9&frac12; years, married again, widowed since 2016. I pay child support for a son adopted during my first marriage that I haven't gotten to see since he was four (he's now 17). There's no drama&mdash;ex and I are on friendly terms on the rare occasions we do talk and we avoid talking bad about each other. The ex-in-laws, however&hellip;

- High-functioning autistic (Asperger Syndrome); glorious lack of social/dating skills; extremely introverted. I can talk nerdy to you all day.

- Theme park junkie (APs to Busch Gardens, SeaWorld, Universal, and Kennedy Space Center). I drive out to see launches when I can. I'll often go to theme parks just to walk around, but I'm also _hopelessly_ hooked on coasters.

- I spend my life in front of a computer screen, both at work (from home) and at home (for personal stuff).

- _I am not trying to get into anyone's pants._ Snuggling up together for a _siesta_ is just as wonderful to me. 

- I am a Christian who belives faith should be intimate _and_ intelligent; I'm equally comfortable in liturgical and spontaneous settings (grew up Catholic, got my religion degree from a Pentecostal university).

- I am a far better writer than talker, whether it's words or music.

Where am I online?
==================

With very few exceptions, nearly everything I share is public. Again, I’m a
wide-open book.

-   [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/stevenwatsonbuehler/)&mdash;with all the politics crap going on, I made most of it private.

-   [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/gloriousabsenceofskill)&mdash;my pictures and often memes.

-   [TikTok](https://www.tiktok.com/@gloriousabsenceofskill)&mdash;my means of completely surrendering my personal dignity.

-   [Twitch](https://twitch.tv/gloriousabsenceofskill)&mdash;where I play video games and let y'all watch. Note I didn't say I was good at them.

-   [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gloriousabsenceofskill)&mdash;not really used for anything these days.

-   [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmugswFkJX7kFvuyqEYA9LA)&mdash;longer form content.

Where this idea came from
=========================

I’m going to admit this idea is not original with me. Jon Saddington
wrote a while back about him and his employees [writing a personal
manual](https://john.do/user-manual/) about themselves, and I
figured, well, my social skills suck, but I can write. So here goes.

The long version
================

I’m a late-40-something born and raised in Santa Ana, People’s Republic
of California (I stole that term from my uncle, who was a UCLA grad and
hates U.C. Berkeley so he calls it the “People’s Republic of Berkeley”).
Mom passed in 1996 from a very rare and aggressive form of cancer; Dad
and his wife are now living in Michigan; my two older sisters both now
live in Syracuse, New York. I did elementary school, Catholic school,
jr. high school, high school, jr. college, and college all in California
and graduated with a B.A. *cum laude* in religion from what’s now
[Vanguard University of Southern California](https://www.vanguard.edu) in 1996. What I do today has
nothing to do with that degree. I ended up in Florida for love and
marriage and the place grew on me, even if the weather is trying to kill
me for half of the year.

My first marriage was to a girl I met in an AOL chat room in late 1997
(when it was still an internet service provider) and married eight
months later in August 1998. After two years of living together in
California (and her first experience with a major earthquake), I agreed
to pull up stakes and move to Lakeland, Florida to be closer to her
family, after which constant interference from now close-by in-laws
among other issues made things tough for me. In the process, we found
out that she would be unable to bear children, and the opportunity came
to adopt from a family friend whose daughter was pregnant and wanted
nothing to do with having a child. He came home in 2003, and I never
really got the chance to be a father thanks to the same in-laws and
other issues. The marriage ended in divorce in 2008, a few months after
I was laid off right as the Great Recession was getting started, and I
left all of it. A few years earlier I had gotten my mental health
diagnoses and I concluded at the time that my adopted son would be in
far better hands with his mother and grandparents than in mine, and I
didn’t want him to be a pawn between two competing parents, so I walked
away, gave up all parental and visitation rights, and never saw him
again (I do pay child support). I moved to an apartment in Plant City. I
was practically-speaking unemployed from September 2007 until about
April 2011, living off of a generous severance package and then whatever
brief temporary work I could find. I then was hired as a contractor
where I’m at now and a few months later the job became permanent. It’s
where I’ve been ever since, through two successive acquisitions and
mergers.

Not long after I moved out, I got a message via MySpace (when it was a
Facebook clone) from somebody I had a crush on in junior high school and
we reconnected. After several months, she was about to be booted onto
the street so I invited her to come to Florida to stay with me so she
could be taken care of. She was Catholic, and I was a *former* Catholic,
so we went to the local parish together and had our previous marriages
canonically annulled, and in 2012, with the help of our parish pastor,
we sprung our wedding rite as a surprise on the entire congregation as
part of a Saturday vigil (with my parents and her daughter in attendance
of course). Being that I am comfortable in both Catholic and
Protestant/Pentecostal traditions, I stayed in the Catholic Church with
her after we married until we were forced to move to Tampa when our
lease in Plant City was not renewed.

My second wife was permanently disabled due to chronic pain, PTSD (in a
previous relationship she was left for dead in Mexico with cigarette
burns on her arms, plus other history of physical, verbal, and emotional
abuse in previous romantic and family relationships), bipolar disorder,
and a laundry list of other issues, for which she regularly took opioids
and psychiatric medications. One afternoon in 2016, her body decided it
had enough and she suddenly and soundlessly dropped dead coming out of
our apartment’s bathroom, and it was too long before I realized what had
happened and called emergency services. We raised money to bring her
kids out to say their goodbyes while she was still using machines to
live, and then let her pass a week later after the physicians declared
her brain dead. There was no service; her remains were cremated and
shipped off to her children back in California.

A few years after her passing, I moved to this much smaller apartment in
Plant City, where I have been since. The accommodations are quite
spartan—my furniture consists of four IKEA tables for a workspace, a
bookshelf to hold up the TV, and an air mattress in the bedroom. I
donated away just about everything I owned in Tampa that wouldn’t fit in
a smart car.

These days I work in a stable (and what I consider fun) job for
[Optum Workers’ Comp & Auto
No-Fault](https://workcompauto.optum.com) (formerly Helios, formerly
PMSI) as an informatics specialist responsible for data and reporting
across their Settlement Solutions suite of services. Before COVID I was
working four days a week from home and one day every week or two in the
office; I now work from home full-time permanently. When I’m not in
front of my work laptop, I’m in front of my personal Mac or one of my
several other computing devices. With nobody really to hang out or do
anything with, this is all I know.

I have passes to
[Universal](https://www.universalorlando.com), [Busch
Gardens](https://www.buschgardens.com/tampa), [SeaWorld
Orlando](https://www.seaworld.com/orlando), and the [Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex](https://kennedyspacecenter.com) over on Merritt Island (I let my
[Disney](https://disneyworld.disney.go.com) one expire during the
spring COVID shutdown and didn’t renew), and when I’m able it’s how I
get myself out of the apartment and move around. As a kid I was scared
to death of coasters; now there isn’t one I haven’t done around here;
and if the lines are long, I’ll just walk a lap around to get some steps
in and enjoy the atmosphere or take pictures. I’ll also venture out on a
day trip to places that pique my interest from time to time. Most of
those pictures end up on my Instagram.

I am mental
------------

I was diagnosed in 2005 with Asperger Syndrome (I call it
high-functioning autism, because people understand what that is a lot
easier), Social Anxiety Disorder, and Arrested Development Disorder, all
of which I was bullied for from the second grade all through high
school. I take one medication for all of the above, which I like to
describe as slowing things down enough that I can *respond* to things
instead of *react* to them (I’ve been stable on the same dose since
2005). I also take a high dose of niacin for cholesterol problems that
run in the family—if you think hot flashes are bad, the flushes from
1,000mg/day of Niaspan without something else to buffer it (aspirin
beforehand) can be EPIC.

Asperger Syndrome does affect how I see the world, how I relate to
spiritual matters, and it does affect relationships in certain ways that
I am aware of and sometimes in ways I’m not aware of. I think of myself
as Sheldon Cooper with a conscience.

My faith
--------

I am very much a Christian but my approach is far more academic (my
motto is that faith “must be both intimate and intelligent.”). Scripture
and Biblical history and how people worship fascinate me, but I am by no
means an apologist. I’m at home in both liturgical/structured and
spontaneous settings (i.e., Pentecostalism), but there are some rather
wild things that are a religious turn-off. I’ve had a rough time
adjusting to the “stage show/rock concert” style worship experiences
with all the bells and whistles, and while I believe that the gifts of
the Holy Spirit still exist and are still operable, I also believe
they’re abused quite a bit (they apparently never read 1 Corinthians
14—and there’s a reason for vv. 34–35 that has nothing to do with the
idea of subjugating women that people seem to read into it). I’ve been
Catholic, Assemblies of God, various stripes of Baptist, and
non-denominational. If you were to pin me to a preferred movement, it
would likely be Calvary Chapel (who spends their time going through the
Bible verse-by-verse rather than the currently-popular “feel good”
sermon).

I will be honest in saying that I’ve not been to church in a while
especially since my late wife’s passing, because of my social anxiety,
which the COVID “lockdowns” have only served to exacerbate.

Politics
--------

I hate having to write about politics, but apparently it's become a showstopper for a lot of people, thanks to the divisiveness our mainstream and social media platforms have wedged into our country, to the point that some are willing to resort to violence or shunning to get their way.  People fail to note that "tolerance" has to go _both_ ways or it's nothing of the sort.

My voter registration is "NPA" (No Party Affiliation), but I definitely lean moderate-to-conservative and generally vote Republican unless there's a candidate from another party who is far more qualified.

Let's get this out of the way now: **I voted for Trump in 2020,** and I held my nose while doing so. In 2016 I voted for neither Trump nor Clinton and instead wrote in "ABSTAIN" because I didn't like any of the candidates. I still don't really like Trump _the person_. He's full of himself. As President it was clear he was ignoring his counselors and doing his own thing, trying to treat the White House like Trump, Inc. When objectively studying his record versus what he promised the people who voted him into office, however, he was one of the few leaders who actually kept many of those promises while in office until the COVID pandemic threw everything off the rails and _everybody_ was having to go without a playbook. In the mainstream interviews and soundbites I saw of Mr. Biden, I saw a person who cleary had issues with mental capacity, jumbling words in speeches just one example (of course, George W. Bush wasn't that great with words, neither), and I saw a very different candidate from past cycles who was being pulled _hard_ to the Socialist left by the more radical elements of the Democratic Party. The Republicans have their Tea Party, Democrats have their Socialists. Neither are appropriate.

When it comes to government and politics, ultimately it's the candidate with the money and the deep-state connections who wins. Trump was a rare exception. This is something I'll have to write about in more detail at another time.

**For the record,** I don't follow emotional/illogical political arguments without support. I read the articles and the legal pleadings. I look for the data and analyze it myself and draw my own conclusions. Headlines are designed to draw eyeballs&mdash;the more eyeballs looking at their news site, the more advertising revenue they get. That's internet reality.  I don't care what people said or did twenty, thirty years ago. I care what they're saying and doing _right now._

How things work with me
=======================

-   I may be late-40-something, but I’m still going on 12 and sometimes act like it, especially when cornered (arrested development disorder).

-   I fidget and move a lot, usually rocking back and forth. I don’t always realize I’m doing it. I have to be doing something. I don’t know how to rest.

-   I interrupt people. A lot. When something pops into my head there’s an excitement to get it out right away. Sometimes it comes out as correcting what somebody’s said or blurting something out when it’s not appropriate. I’m trying to pay more attention to avoid feeding that habit.

-   I tend to approach things in an objective, emotionless way at times (think Spock). Often it comes across as being uncaring, distant, or disinterested, when the complete opposite is true but I don’t know how to say so.

-   The above approach to things also is a benefit in that when some kind of crisis or major upheaval happens, I immediately am able to shift into what I call “business mode” and get sh\*t done.

-   I process emotional stimuli differently. See the previous point, but I’ve found the same is true about how I process grief in particular.

-   Apparently when I am depressed, angry, or frustrated, I clean things. I’ve actually heard that my mother-in-law told my first wife that she should piss me off more often.

-   Outside of theme parks (probably because even with crowds I don’t really have to interact with people there), parties, some concerts, and large social gatherings are mentally and emotionally exhausting for me. It helps to have an extrovert going with me, but if I get too comfortable I will talk until my ears go numb from the lack of oxygen. There is no in-between.

-   I don’t read non-verbal cues well and I don’t always get jokes. If you’re trying to communicate feelings to me you have to speak up and communicate them plainly. Yes, it may hurt and it might make me mad, but I’ll get over it after I’ve had the opportunity to process what you’ve said.

-   My personal hygiene suffers when I’m on my own, because I have nowhere to go. Rest assured, though, that before any significant meeting, event, date (if I ever do that again), etc., I *do* shower and clean myself up. ;-)

-   I can’t sit through most movies. I get too invested in them and get embarrassed for the actors.

-   I don’t know how to do the whole courtship/ask Dad/meet the family thing. My first marriage I never asked permission, the second one I didn’t have to (because her father was dead and she had all but disowned her mother and stepmother because of how she was treated as a child).

-   *If you tell me you don’t want anything for your birthday/anniversary/Christmas/other occasion, I WILL BELIEVE YOU.*

What I enjoy
============

-   Theme parks, obviously. It’s my only opportunity to be away from reality for a while.

-   Animals. Don’t have any of my own right now, but over the years I’ve had dogs, cats, birds, guinea pigs, and ferrets. My late wife was a small animal specialist.

-   I’m a *Harry Potter* fan, but not the kind that constantly spits out trivia or has everything decorated like Hogwarts (okay, maybe a _little_ bit). According to the [Wizarding World](https://wizardingworld.com) web site, I’m sorted into Ravenclaw and my patronus is a St. Bernard, and I own an interactive replica of Snape’s wand (the tragic hero). I have read the books, but not seen the films, nor have any intention to.

-   Same with _Star Trek_. Not so much with _Star Wars_ since I dropped my Disney pass.

-   I am most “at home” in front of a computer screen. It’s just what I’ve known all my life with being bullied through school and now living on my own. At one time that also meant porn addiction, but since participating in recovery for it, it just stopped being interesting (the medication I take for my Asperger’s also dials back the libido; I told the psychiatrist who prescribed it that my wife would be eternally grateful).

-   I learned from my late wife how to enjoy a ‘kink’ or two, but go too far and it invokes reminders of my earlier porn addiction and it’s a turn-off.

-   I will make sure *you* get there before *I* do.

-   Yes, I’m a “man”, but I like to cuddle/snuggle up. That’s when I feel closest to the opposite sex and when I feel most at rest.

-   Music is my lifeblood. Either listening to it or creating my own. Except right now I really don’t have a “muse.”

-   I love history of all kinds. Especially exciting because here on the east coast there is *far* more history than California.

-   I am very visual. First thing that captures my attention are the eyes. Then, of course, about 12 inches lower (I’m being honest, ladies).

-   I like simplicity. I don’t do a whole lot of collecting or decorating on my own and my apartment is *intentionally* tiny with a minimum of furniture.

What I don’t like
=================

-   I ABSOLUTELY DO NOT like complaining, nor complainers. That is *especially* true if the thing being complained about is within your control to fix or resolve. Either do something about it or shut up. That said, I will hear you out, at least the first time.

-   Certain foods and food textures gross me out (an autistic quirk). Includes but not limited to red meat (especially if it’s anything less than well done) and anything still on the bone. The mere smell of liver makes me physically ill. Yes, I am a picky eater. This doesn't mean I'm necessarily vegetarian or vegan; I just avoid red meat generally except for a good hamburger.

-   I can’t handle vomit&mdash;smelling it, hearing someone doing it, or seeing someone doing it. At all. I will fight you for space at the toilet while holding back your hair.

-   Same with cigarettes/cigarette smoke. Particularly because that’s what killed my mother and it got blown in my face every afternoon walking home from school.

-   I don’t mind alcohol, but I generally don’t keep any in my home. I used to volunteer in a recovery program that included recovering alcoholics, and it’s just a road I don’t want to start on. When I do drink, it’s strictly beer or wine—anything stronger and you’ll likely be carrying me to the car (hope you can drive).

-   I don’t like surprises. I also don’t like guessing.

-   “I don’t know” is NEVER an acceptable answer to “where/what do you want to eat/go/do?”.
